Now that is it for this course section.
Was again another long section
but it was about a super important topic, Redux.
And you did learn initially how you can set up Redux
without React and then how you can set it up
without Redux Toolkit.
Now Redux Toolkit is amazing and my strong recommendation
is to use it because as you saw
throughout this course section,
it's much easier to manage your state and your reducers
and your actions when using Toolkit
instead of having to set up everything on your own.
Still it's important to know what happens behind the scenes
which is why I did start without Redux Toolkit
so that you really know everything about Redux
what you need to know and so that you're also able
to dive into projects that might not be using Redux Toolkit
but just Redux.
Now then you learn about these core Redux concepts
and this Redux flow you learned
about actions and reducers or this one root reducer
and about the fact that Redux has this one
central data store that we can create this store
with configure store when using Redux Toolkit.
And that then as an argument,
we pass in an object where we assign our route reducer.
We either point at just one reducer function,
or we set up such a map of reducers,
which are then merged together
into one big reducer behind the scenes.
Now we also learned how we can then use
our Redux managed data
that we can use useSelector
in our components to read data from our Redux managed state
and that we can use useDispatch to get access
to that dispatch function
which we use to dispatch our actions,
which then ultimately leads to our Redux state
being changed.
We also learned that we can pass extra data
to those actions because you often have actions
and reducer function there for which do need extra data.
We also learned how we would connect a
class-based component to Redux.
We're not going to use that in this course
and you might not see it too often out there
but on the other hand, there are a lot
of projects which still only use class based components.
So that's definitely also something you
should be aware of.
And there for now we have a very solid foundation
when it comes to Redux.
Redux is an amazing library.
It can replace React context as you learned
but it's also not a must use library.
It's always up to you to decide whether for your project
you want to go with React context,
or if you need Redux.
React context can have certain disadvantages
as I mentioned, but they might not matter in your project.
You might not see or measure any performance issues
and you might not have a super complex setup and management.
Then of course, there's nothing wrong with sticking
to React context, because you must not forget that
if you use Redux, you do add an extra third party library.
And that of course adds
up to the overall code of your application.
It makes your application bigger.
So Redux is not always better.
It can be a decent option and now
you know how it works and when you should maybe consider it.
Now we are going to work more with it throughout the course
but this is now a solid foundation
which you need as a React developer.